>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SATURDAY, JULY 11:
MORE AUSTERITY IN GREECE'S
FUTURE.
A STOCK MARKET CRASH IN CHINA.
TO PUERTO RICO'S SEVERE DEBT
PROBLEM: EXAMINING THREE
CRITICAL FINANCIAL CRISES.
AND, HARPER LEE TAKES THE
LITERARY WORLD BY STORM AGAIN.
A LOOK AT "TO KILL A
MOCKINGBIRD," AND THE SURPRISES
CONTAINED IN "GO SET A
WATCHMAN."
>> I ASKED HER, "DID YOU EVER
THINK YOU WOULD SEE THIS
PUBLISHED?"
AND SHE SAID, "DON'T BE SILLY,
OF COURSE I DID."
>> Sreenivasan: NEXT ON PBS
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS IN
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING AND
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
WE'RE FOLLOWING THREE SERIOUS,
BUT SEPARATE ECONOMIC CRISES
TONIGHT.
WE START IN GREECE, WHERE
PARLIAMENT HELD A LATE NIGHT
SESSION TO PUT TOGETHER A SERIES
OF BUDGET CUTS IN THE AIMS OF
CONVINCING EUROPEAN LEADERS FOR
53.5 BILLION EUROS IN BAILOUT
FUNDS.
PRIME MINISTER ALEXIS TSIPRAS
NEEDS TO PERSUADE EUROZONE
FINANCE MINISTERS MEETING IN
BRUSSELS TODAY THAT HIS
AUSTERITY PLAN IS WORTHY OF
FURTHER CONSIDERATION BY
EUROPEAN LEADERS TOMORROW.
TSIPRAS IS PROMISING BUDGET CUTS
AND TAX HIKES IN EXCHANGE FOR A
THREE-YEAR LOAN TO KEEP GREECE'S
BANKS FROM COLLAPSING AND KEEP
THE EURO AS ITS COMMON CURRENCY.
LATE TODAY, THE GERMAN FINANCE
MINISTER SUGGESTED GREECE BE
TAKEN OFF THE EURO FOR FIVE
YEARS AND GET HUMANITARIAN AID
INSTEAD OF DEBT RELIEF.
ONE NEGOTIATOR CALLED TODAY'S
MEETING DIFFICULT.
>> WE ARE NOT THERE YET, BOTH ON
SUBSTANCE.
THERE IS STILL A LOT OF
CRITICISM ON THE PROPOSALS, ON
THE REFORM SIDE, ON THE FISCAL
SIDE AND THERE IS OF COURSE A
MAJOR ISSUE OF TRUST.
CAN THE GREEK GOVERNMENT BE
TRUSTED TO ACTUALLY DO WHAT THEY
ARE PROMISING, TO ACTUALLY
IMPLEMENT IN THE COMING WEEKS,
MONTHS, YEARS?
>> AFTER ALL, WE ARE DISCUSSING
A PROPOSAL FROM THE GREEK
GOVERNMENT THAT WAS FIERCELY
REJECTED LESS THAN A WEEK AGO,
AND THAT IS A SERIOUS CONCERN.
>> Sreenivasan: DESPITE BACK-TO-
BACK MEETINGS THIS WEEKEND,
NEGOTIATORS DON'T EXPECT TO MAKE
A FINAL DEAL BEFORE MONDAY.
AND IN CHINA, THE GOVERNMENT
MIGHT HAVE STOPPED OR SLOWED-
DOWN THE MASS SELL-OFF THAT
CRASHED IT'S STOCK MARKET THIS
WEEK.
SHARES THERE HAVE FALLEN BY
NEARLY A THIRD IN LESS THAN A
MONTH-- WIPING OUT ALMOST
$4 TRILLION IN WEALTH.
AFTER SERIOUS LOSSES EARLY THIS
WEEK, STOCKS ACTUALLY RALLIED
YESTERDAY AND THURSDAY, POSSIBLY
BECAUSE BEIJING RELEASED
$19 BILLION TO THE COUNTRY'S
BIGGEST BROKERAGE FIRMS.
THE FIRMS ARE USING THE MONEY TO
BUY STOCKS AND SLOW DOWN THE
SELL-OFFS.
SO HOW CONCERNED SHOULD WE BE
ABOUT CHINA'S STOCK CRASH AND
ARE THERE OTHER LOOMING ISSUES
BEYOND THE STOCK MARKET?
JOINING US FROM BOSTON IS
ORVILLE SCHELL, WHO HEADS THE
CENTER ON U.S.-CHINA RELATIONS
AT THE ASIA SOCIETY.
SO ORVILLE, JUST TO KEEP IN
PERSPECTIVE, I WAS LOOKING BACK
AT THE CHARGE, THE TWO MAJOR
INDEXES THERE HAVE DOUBLED, MORE
THAN A HUNDRED PERCENT IN THE
PAST 12 MONTHS.
THAT STILL LEAVES THEM UP 60 OR
70% AND THAT'S A FIGURE MOST OF
US CAN'T WRAP OUR HEADS AROUND.
>> SO THIS WAS REALLY A VERY
OBVIOUS BUBBLE IN THE MAKING.
I THINK IT MADE IT DIFFICULT FOR
EVERYBODY TO SEE THIS SPECIFIC
BUBBLE.
WE ARE QUITE ACCUSTOMED TO
FINDING THE ANOMALOUS, THE
EXCEPTIONAL THE UNUSUAL IN
CHINESE ECONOMY AND THESE ARE
CHINESE EXPERIMENTS.
WE NEVER KNOW WHETHER THIS IS
PART OF THE NEW EXTRAORDINARY
INEXPLICABLE CHINESE MODEL,
WHETHER IT'S SOMETHING HEADING
FOR THE ABYSS.
IN THIS CASE IT'S HEADED FOR AN
ABYSS.
>> A LOT OF TIMES PEOPLE THINK
OF THE ECONOMY AND THE STOCK
MARKET IN SYNONYMOUS TERMS BUT
IN CHINA IT'S NOT QUITE THE
CASE.
WHEN IT GOT TOO HOT THE
GOVERNMENT JUMPED IN TO COOL IT
DOWN AND NOW THEY JUMPED IN FOR
THE SELL OFF.
>> AS HUGE AS THE MARKET IS IN
CHINA, IN HONG KONG IT'S THE
SECOND LARGEST STOCK MARKET IN
THE WORLD, STILL IT IS
RELATIVELY DISCRETE IN TERMS OF
ITS CONNECTION TO THE ECONOMY AS
A WHOLE.
I THINK FINALLY ACTUALLY, IT
WILL CERTAINLY HAVE SOME EFFECT
BUT IT'S NOT GOING TO BE A DO OR
DIE MATTER FOR CHINA'S ECONOMY
IN GENERAL.
SO THAT'S IMPORTANT TO REMEMBER.
I THINK ACTUALLY THE
CONSEQUENCES AS SERIOUS AS THEY
COULD BE IN WAYS FOR THE ECONOMY
WILL BE EVEN GREATER IN THE
POLITICAL SOCIAL REALM.
AND PARTICULARLY IN REGARD TO
THE LEADERSHIP SORT OF ABILITY
TO CONTINUE TO EVOKE THE SENSE
OF OMNIPOTENCE.
>> WHAT SORT OF RIPPLE EFFECTS
DO YOU SEE HERE.
IF THERE'S LESS WEALTH IN THE
MARKET OR IN THE COUNTRY, THEN
DOES THAT MEAN THE DEMAND DRIES
UP AND CHINA BUYS LESS IN THE
WORLD OR DOES THEIR COMMODITY
PRICES DECREASE AND DOES THAT
MEAN THINGS ARE CHEAPER FOR THE
WORLD TO BUY.
>> I THIRTY THERE WERE A LOT OF
PEOPLE STAMPEDING INTO THE
MARKET, UNSOPHISTICATED BUYERS.
CLEARLY THIS IS GOING TO HAMPER
THEIR ABILITY TO CONTINUE TO BE
REALLY ARDENT CONSUMER.
WE'VE SEEN CAR SALES ARE DOWN,
HOUSING IS A BIG PROBLEM.
SOME PEOPLE WERE ON MARGIN.
HUGE AMOUNTS OF BORROWED MONEY
TO GO INTO THE STOCK MARKET.
IN SOME CASES PUTTING HOUSES UP
AS COLLATERAL.
SO THERE ARE GOING TO BE
CERTAINLY ARE GOING TO BE RIPPLE
EFFECTS.
>> DOES THE GOVERNMENT IN CHINA
HAVE A CHOICE IN NOT STEPPING
IN?
I MEAN IF PEOPLE, ESPECIALLY
RETAIL CONSUMERS WHO JUMPED INTO
THE MARKET LATE SAW HUGE LOSSES.
I MEAN, IS THERE THE THREAT OF
POLITICAL INSTABILITY OF PEOPLE
BEING FRUSTRATED WITH THE
GOVERNMENT THAT RALLIED THEM ON
TO BUY.
>> WELL CLEARLY THE PARTY AND
THE STATE FELT THAT THEY WERE
UNDER THREAT IF THE MARKET
CONTINUED TO TANK.
BUT YOU KNOW, THIS IS AGAIN THIS
ANOMALY SITUATION IT'S SORT OF
THE POTTERY BARN, YOU BREAK IT
YOU OWN IT.
I THINK THE PARTY IN A SENSE
TOOK OWNERSHIP OF THE MARKET
WHEREAS IN MOST COUNTRIES, STOCK
MARKETS ARE NOT CONSIDERED THE
PROVIDENCE OF THE STATE OR THE
GOVERNMENT.
>> ALL RIGHT.
ORVILLE SCHELL OF THE ASIAN
SOCIETY JOINING US TODAY.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> Sreenivasan: NOW TO FINANCIAL
TROUBLE IN PUERTO RICO, WHERE
LEADERS WANT TO DECLARE
BANKRUPTCY, BUT CANNOT UNLESS
THE U.S. CONGRESS CHANGES THE
LAW.
PUERTO RICO ANNOUNCED LAST MONTH
IT SIMPLY CANNOT PAY $72 BILLION
IN DEBT.
CONGRESSIONAL DEMOCRATS WANT TO
ALLOW LIMITED BANKRUPTCY RELIEF,
BUT REPUBLICANS SAY IT'S NOT
ENOUGH AND THAT LEADERS NEED TO
ADDRESS THE TERRITORY'S
UNDERLYING BUDGET ISSUES.
IRONICALLY, A NEW REPORT IN THE
"WASHINGTON POST" SAYS CONGRESS
HAS ACTUALLY PLAYED A
CONTRIBUTING ROLE IN THE FISCAL
TROUBLE OF THE U.S.
COMMONWEALTH.
JOINING US NOW WITH THE DETAILS
FROM BALTIMORE IS MICHAEL
FLETCHER WHO HAS BEEN COVERING
THE STORY.
>> YOU WERE JUST DOWN THERE A
FEW WEEKS AGO.
WHAT'S THE U.S. RESPONSIBILITY
IN THIS CRISES?
>> WELL, IT'S INTERESTING.
THE POLITICAL ECONOMY HAS BEEN
EXECUTED FOR YEARS BY U.S. TAX
PURPOSES ESSENTIALLY.
IN MANY WAYS OR DECADES AGO THAT
LED TO THE DEVELOPMENT WHICH IS
A VERY GENEROUS TAX BREAK.
IT KIND OF SHIFTED TO MORE
INTENSIVE LIKE PHARMACEUTICAL
MANUFACTURING.
THAT MADE PUERTO RICO ONE OF THE
TOP MANUFACTURERS IN THE WORLD.
THE TOP 20 PRESCRIPTION DRUGS
ARE ACTUALLY MADE IN PUERTO
RICO.
THAT DEVELOPMENT TOOK AWAY FROM
OTHER THINGS I MIGHT HAVE DONE
NATURALLY LIKE DEVELOP MORE,
WHAT HAVE YOU.
THE TAX BREAK LASTED BUT THEN IN
1996 CONGRESS DID AWAY, BEGAN TO
TAKE UP THE TAX BREAK AND IN
2006, SINCE THEN PUERTO RICO'S
BEEN IN RECESSION.
>> THEY CAN'T DECLARE BANKRUPTCY
LIKE DETROIT CAN.
>> THEY CAN'T.
THEY'RE TREATED JUST LIKE STATES
ARE UNDER BANKRUPTCY LAW.
MUNICIPALITIES AND HOSPITAL
DISTRICTS, THINGS LIKE THAT.
THEY CAN DECLARE BANKRUPTCY
WHICH GIVES THEM BREATHING ROOM
TO REORGANIZE THEIR DEBTS.
AND PUERTO RICO CANNOT DO THAT.
FOR THE LAST NINE, TEN, 12
YEARS, PUERTO RICO HAS BEEN
STUCK IN THE CYCLE OF FOLLOWING
MORE MONEY BASICALLY TO PAY FOR
ITS ONGOING OPERATION.
RIGHT NOW CLOSE TO HALF OF THE
BUDGET'S GOES TO DEBT SERVICE
AND THIS IS JUST AN
UNSUSTAINABLE SITUATION.
SO NOW THEY'RE LOOKING FOR
LIMITED CHAPTER 9 RELIEF.
THEY WANT TO BE ABLE TO HAVE THE
COURSE TO HAVE ELECTRICITY,
SEWER AND HIGHWAYS, THEY WANT
THE ABILITY FOR THOSE
CORPORATIONS AT LEAST TO GO TO
BANKRUPTCY SO THEY COULD WORK
OUT SOMETHING WITH CREDITORS.
AND REALLY THE THREAT FROM
PUERTO RICO IS IF THERE'S NO
CHAPTER 9, THERE WILL BE
BANKRUPTCY BY ANOTHER NAME.
THEY WILL DEFAULT, CREDITORS
WILL HAVE TO SUE AND IT'S A
DRAGGED OUT AND IT'S REALLY BAD
FOR THE ISLAND AS WELL.
>> THERE'S A POLITICAL TENSION.
THE DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATES, EVEN
THE WHITE HOUSE IS BEHIND THIS
CHAPTER 9 POSSIBLE SOLUTION
WORKING ITS WAY THROUGH BUT
THERE'S SOME TENSION INSIDE THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY SOME FOLKS WHO
MIGHT BE CONCERNED ABOUT THE
VOTES, VERSUS CONCERNED ABOUT
THE HEDGE FUND MANAGERS.
>> EXACTLY RIGHT.
IT'S KIND OF TIED TO THE
CREDITORS SAYING THEY DON'T WANT
PUERTO RICO TO HAVE THIS
BANKRUPTCY OPTION BECAUSE THAT'S
THE REASON THEY EXTENDED CREDIT.
THEY NEEDED AND COULDN'T GO TO
BANKRUPTCY AND IT'S ANOTHER
LAYER OF PROTECTION THEY DON'T
HAVE TO GO THAT MUCH FARTHER TO
PAY THOSE DEBTS.
THERE'S THAT BUT ALSO YOU LOOK
AT STATES LIKE FLORIDA WHERE WE
HAVE INCREASING PUERTO RICAN
POPULATION.
THERE'S ECONOMIC PROBLEMS AND A
LOT OF PEOPLE ARE GOING TO
CENTRAL FLORIDA, NEW YORK OF
COURSE OR PHILADELPHIA.
BUT THAT CREATES THIS KIND OF
POLITICAL PRESSURE TO DO
SOMETHING.
I THINK BOTH DEMOCRATS AND
REPUBLICANS FEEL THAT.
REPUBLICANS DON'T LIKE
BANKRUPTCY.
IT'S LIKE A BAILOUT, I DON'T SEE
HOW IT'S A GOVERNMENT BAILOUT
BUT NEVERTHELESS PUERTO RICO HAS
TO SOMEHOW PAY THIS DEBT.
GIVEN THE WAY CYCLE WORKS IT'S
UNLIKELY TO BE ABLE TO BALANCE
AN ECONOMIC EXPANSION.
>> THANK YOU, JOINING US FROM
BALTIMORE.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> Sreenivasan: IN BOSNIA,
VIOLENCE ERUPTED DURING WHAT WAS
SUPPOSED TO BE A SOMBER CEREMONY
TODAY MARKING 20 YEARS SINCE THE
SREBRENICA MASSACRE.
JUST MONTHS BEFORE THE END OF
THE BOSNIAN WAR IN 1995, BOSNIAN
SERB FORCES ATTACKED THE TOWN OF
SREBRENICA, EVEN THOUGH IT HAD
BEEN DECLARED A SAFE HAVEN BY
THE UNITED NATIONS.
8,000 MUSLIMS, MOSTLY MEN AND
BOYS, WERE ROUNDED UP AND
EXECUTED, THEIR BODIES SCATTERED
ACROSS THE OUTSKIRTS OF TOWN.
TODAY, FORMER PRESIDENT BILL
CLINTON AND SERBIA'S PRIME
MINISTER ALEKSANDER VUCIC JOINED
TENS OF THOUSANDS OF MOURNERS
FOR A MASS BURIAL.
BUT AT ONE POINT, PEOPLE IN THE
CROWD STARTED SHOUTING, BOOING,
AND THROWING BOTTLES AT VUCIC.
HE WAS HIT WITH A ROCK AND
CHASED OUT OF THE CEMETERY.
VUCIC WAS A HARDLINE ANTI-MUSLIM
NATIONALIST DURING THE CONFLICTS
IN THE 1990'S.
FORMER PRESIDENT CLINTON
CONDEMNED TODAY'S ATTACK ON
VUCIC AND REMARKED ON THE
GENOCIDE THAT PROMPTED THE U.S.
TO JOIN NATO AIRSTRIKES AGAINST
BOSNIAN-SERB FORCES.
>> I GRIEVE THAT IT TOOK US SO
LONG TO UNIFY ALL OF YOUR
FRIENDS BEHIND, USING THE AMOUNT
OF FORCE THAT WAS NECESSARY TO
STOP THIS VIOLENCE AND I AM
THRILLED THAT THE PEACE HAS BEEN
MAINTAINED.
>> Sreenivasan: FOR 16 YEARS,
ONE MAN WHO ESCAPED THE MASSACRE
HAS BEEN ON A SEARCH FOR HIS
LOST BROTHER AND FATHER.
STEPHEN FEE HAS THE STORY.
>> Reporter: MOST DAYS, RAMIZ
NUKIC TRUDGES THROUGH THE LUSH
FORESTS SURROUNDING SREBRENICA,
SEARCHING FOR THE REMAINS OF
THOSE KILLED TWO DECADES AGO.
HE'S NOT A GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL
OR A HUMANITARIAN WORKER.
JUST A SURVIVOR.
>> (translated): THERE IS NO
PLACE I DON'T CHECK.
AND IF I FIND ONE BONE, THEN I'M
HAPPY.
SOMETIMES I FEEL SORRY WHEN I
DON'T FIND ANYTHING, AND I'M
HAPPY WHEN I FIND IT.
SOMEONE'S FAMILY WILL FIND PEACE
AND CLOSURE WITH THAT BONE.
>> Reporter: IT'S A GRIM
RECOVERY OPERATION.
AND FOR NUKIC, IT'S PERSONAL.
AFTER BOSNIAN SERB FORCES CLOSED
ON SREBRENICA, HE AND THOUSANDS
OF OTHER BOSNIAN MUSLIMS ESCAPED
TO THESE WOODS.
BUT AN AMBUSH KILLED BOTH HIS
FATHER AND ELDEST BROTHER.
NUKIC HID IN THE BUSHES UNTIL
THE MASSACRE WAS OVER.
>> (translated): WHEN I
COLLECTED THE COURAGE TO COME UP
THERE AGAIN, WHEN I WENT THERE,
I SAW SCATTERED SHOES, CLOTHES.
THE CHILLS WENT THROUGH MY BODY.
I WAS SPEECHLESS.
NUMB.
>> Reporter: NUKIC'S EFFORTS
HAVE LED OFFICIALS TO IDENTIFY
NEARLY 300 SREBRENICA VICTIMS.
SINCE THE WAR'S END, 7,000
BODIES HAVE BEEN IDENTIFIED,
1,000 STILL MISSING.
IT WASN'T UNTIL THIS YEAR THAT
THE REMAINS OF NUKIC'S FATHER
AND BROTHER WERE DISCOVERED, BY
SOMEONE ELSE, IN A MASS GRAVE
NEARBY.
HE PLANS TO BURY HIS FATHER
TODAY.
>> (translated): AND I'M
HAPPY.
EVEN THOUGH HIS BODY IS NOT
COMPLETE, I WILL BURY HIM, WHAT
BONES WERE LEFT OF HIM, AND THE
REST?
ONLY GOD KNOWS.
>> Sreenivasan: AFTER MONTHS OF
ANTICIPATION, HARPER LEE'S
SECOND NOVEL "GO SET A WATCHMAN"
COMES OUT THIS TUESDAY.
IT TAKES PLACE 20 YEARS AFTER
THE EVENTS OF "TO KILL A
MOCKINGBIRD," THE SEMINAL BOOK
THAT'S SOLD 40 MILLION COPIES
SINCE ITS PUBLICATION 55 YEARS
AGO TODAY.
BUT EARLY REVIEWS REVEAL THAT
THE STORY TAKES AN UNEXPECTED
TURN.
THE REVERED LAWYER ATTICUS
FINCH, HELD UP AS A CHAMPION OF
RACIAL JUSTICE IN "TO KILL A
MOCKINGBIRD," HOLDS RACIST
ATTITUDES IN "GO SET A
WATCHMAN."
WE'LL HAVE MORE ON THAT ASPECT
OF THE NEW BOOK IN JUST A FEW
MINUTES.
WE TURN AGAIN TO, THE NEWSHOUR'S
STEPHEN FEE, WHO SPOKE TO
FILMMAKER MARY MCDONAGH MURPHY.
SHE PRODUCED THE PBS DOCUMENTARY
"HARPER LEE: AMERICAN MASTERS."
>> I THINK IT'S EXCITING FOR
READERS TO SEE WHAT HAPPENED TO
SCOUT AND TO FIND OUT WHERE SHE
WENT AND HOW SHE DID.
SO THAT IS A BIG PART OF THE
BOOK.
SCOUT'S IN NEW YORK, SHE'S
TRAVELING HOME, AND THEN OF
COURSE TO SEE ATTICUS AT AN
ADVANCED AGE.
HE'S 72, HE'S GOT RHEUMATOID
ARTHRITIS, AND THE RELATIONSHIP
BETWEEN A GROWN UP DAUGHTER AND
HER FATHER IS A BIG, BIG PART OF
THE BOOK.
>> Reporter: MURPHY HAD THE RARE
OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK WITH HARPER
LEE JUST WEEKS AGO IN THE
AUTHOR'S HOMETOWN, MONROEVILLE,
ALABAMA.
LEE HAS TROUBLE HEARING, SO
MURPHY WROTE DOWN ONE QUESTION
FOR THE AUTHOR.
>> I HELD UP THE BOOK AND I HELD
UP MY QUESTION WHICH WAS, DID
YOU EVER THINK YOU WOULD SEE
THIS PUBLISHED?
BECAUSE OF COURSE IT WAS HANDED
IN IN 1957 AND SET ASIDE, AND
SHE SAID, DON'T BE SILLY.
OF COURSE I DID.
>> Reporter: AND WHAT DID THAT
TELL YOU ABOUT WHO HARPER LEE
IS, I MEAN EVEN JUST THAT LITTLE
SLIVER?
>> I THINK IT TELLS YOU THAT
HARPER LEE ACTUALLY REALLY
DOESN'T LIKE BEING ASKED
QUESTIONS.
>> Reporter: WHILE THE ATTICUS
FINCH IN THE NEW BOOK, "GO SET A
WATCHMAN," HOLDS RACIST VIEWS
AND DENOUNCES INTEGRATION, THE
ATTICUS OF TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD
HAS LONG BEEN HELD UP AS AN
EXAMPLE OF COURAGE.
IN MURPHY'S FILM, "HARPER LEE:
AMERICAN MASTERS," CELEBRITIES
AND AUTHORS DISCUSS THE IMPACT
TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD HAD ON
THEIR LIVES.
>> THIS WAS ONE OF THE FIRST
BOOKS I WANTED TO ENCOURAGE
OTHER PEOPLE TO READ.
YOU KNOW, READ THIS BOOK, READ
THIS BOOK, READ THIS BOOK!
>> SCOUT, SIMPLY BY THE NATURE
OF THE WORK, EVERY LAWYER GETS
AT LEAST ONE CASE IN HIS
LIFETIME THAT AFFECTS HIM
PERSONALLY.
THE SMALL TOWN, THE PERSONAL
RELATIONSHIPS, THE PLACE OF A
LAWYER, THE PLACE OF RACE IN THE
SOUTH, IT'S ALL ENCAPSULATED IN
THAT AND AGAIN HE WASN'T
MOUNTING SOME ALTAR TO GIVE HER
A SERMON.
>> Reporter: AND IN MURPHY'S
FILM, CIVIL RIGHTS LEADER ANDREW
YOUNG SAYS THE ATTICUS OF
"MOCKINGBIRD" REPRESENTS A
GENERATION OF LAWYERS WHO HELPED
BRING ABOUT THE CIVIL RIGHTS
MOVEMENT.
>> FOR ME, HE REPRESENTS A
GENERATION OF INTELLIGENT WHITE
LAWYERS, WHO EVENTUALLY IN THE
'50s AND '60s BECAME THE FEDERAL
JUDGES THAT CHANGED THE SOUTH.
>> Reporter: SO THIS BOOK IS
COMING OUT AT A TIME WHEN ALL
THESE RACIAL TENSIONS ARE IN THE
HEADLINES EVERY DAY.
DOES THAT MAKE THIS PUBLICATION
HAVE A LITTLE BIT MORE OF AN
IMPACT RIGHT NOW?
>> I THINK IT WAS ALWAYS GOING
TO HAVE AN IMPACT.
AND I THINK AS LONG AS THERE'S
ANY KIND OF RACIAL TENSION AND
INJUSTICE AND INTOLERANCE,
ANYTHING HARPER LEE HAS TO SAY
IS GOING TO RESONATE.
AND I THINK "GO SET A WATCHMAN"
IS A PIECE OF SOCIAL HISTORY IN
A WAY.
IT LOOKS BACK AT ALABAMA IN THE
MID-'50s WHEN A LOT OF THINGS
THAT ARE AT ISSUE TODAY WERE
FERMENTING.
>> Reporter: IS THERE PRESSURE
HERE FOR THIS BOOK TO BE AS
MEANINGFUL, AS IMPORTANT TO SO
MANY PEOPLE AS "TO KILL A
MOCKINGBIRD" WAS?
>> I THINK THAT EVERYBODY'S
EXPECTATION IS HIGH, AND YOU
KNOW ANYONE WHO LOVED HARPER
LEE'S VOICE THE FIRST TIME IS
GOING TO WANT TO HEAR IT AGAIN.
AS HARPER LEE HERSELF SAID ABOUT
"TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD," I HAVE
NOWHERE TO GO BUT DOWN.
I MEAN IT'S A FUNCTION OF WHAT
HAPPENS WHEN YOU HAVE SOMETHING
THAT'S THAT ENORMOUS AND THAT
POWERFUL AND THAT ENDURING.
SO I'M SURE EXPECTATIONS ARE
HIGH AND I'M SURE SOME PEOPLE
WILL THINK THEY'RE MET AND SOME
PEOPLE WON'T.
I'M NOT A BOOK CRITIC, SO I'LL
LEAVE THAT TO THEM.
>> Sreenivasan: JOINING US NOW
TO DISCUSS "GO SET A WATCHMAN"
IS SAM SACKS, WHO REVIEWED IT
FOR THE FICTION CHRONICLE OF THE
"WEEKEND JOURNAL."
SO, I'M THINKING GREGORY PECK IN
MY HEAD.
IT'S ATTICUS FINCH THE
CHARACTER.
AND IN THIS BOOK, YOU SAY IT'S
DISTRESSING WHAT'S HAPPENED TO
HIM.
>> YES.
ATTICUS FINCH IS REVEALED TO BE
A SEGREGATIONIST.
SOMEONE WHO JOINS AN
ORGANIZATION TO RESIST THE
INTEGRATION MOVEMENT THAT
HAPPENED AFTER BROWN VERSUS
BOARD OF EDUCATION.
>> AND THIS WAS A BOOK THAT
HARPER LEE WROTE BEFORE TO KILL
A MOCKINGBIRD, SO IT'S NOT
SEQUENTIALLY A SEQUEL.
>> EXACTLY.
SHE WROTE IT AS A DRAFT.
IT WAS THE FIRST THING SHE
SUBMITTED TO HER EDITOR.
HER EDITOR SAID WELL, WHY DON'T
YOU DO IT WHEN SCOUT IS A CHILD
INSTEAD OF A 26 YEAR OLD.
YOU SHOULD GET CREDIT FOR HOW
SIGNIFICANT TO KILL A
MOCKINGBIRD CAME.
THAT'S A BOOK WE ALL PICK UP IN
ELEMENTARY OR MIDDLE SCHOOL.
IT'S ONE OF THE MOST IMPORTANT
PIECES OF LITERATURE IN AMERICA
THAT AT LEAST GIVES AN IMMIGRANT
AN INSIGHT TO WHAT THIS COUNTRY
IS ABOUT.
HOW ARE READERS LIKELY TO
RECEIVE WHAT THEY THINK OF AS
REAL RESHAPING OF ONE OF THE
BIGGEST CHARACTERS IN AMERICAN
LITERATURE.
>> IT'S GOING TO BE REALLY
INTERESTING.
A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE GOING TO BE
EXTREMELY SHOCKED AND UPSET
FIRST OF ALL BECAUSE OF THEIR
IS A SYMBOL, AN ICON, MORAL
CONSCIOUS OF THE UNITED STATES.
YOU HAVE A MORE COMPLEX AND
COMPLICATED MAJOR OF THIS
CHARACTER NOW.
>> EVEN THE READER YOU POINT OUT
THERE'S A QUOTE IN THERE FROM
SCOUT, THE OLDER SCOUT NEVER
BELIEVE A WORD YOU SAY TO ME
AGAIN I DESPISE YOU AND
EVERYTHING YOU STAND FOR.
>> IT'S INTERESTING ISN'T IT
BECAUSE SCOUT HAS THE SAME
REACTION TO THE DISCOVERY SHE
MAKES ABOUT HER FATHER THAT THE
READER IS GOING TO HAVE.
SHE'S LET DOWN AND JUST AS
DISAPPOINTED.
AND THE BOOK IS ABOUT WELL CAN
SHE EMPATHIZE WITH HIM ANYWAY.
>> IS THERE THE POSSIBILITY FOR
THIS BOOK TO BECOME AS
SIGNIFICANT OR DOES THIS CHANGE
WHETHER MIDDLE SCHOOLS HAND OUT
TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD.
>> IT'S A VERY GOOD QUESTION.
IT ABSOLUTELY COMPLICATES TO
KILL A MOCKINGBIRD.
YOU CAN'T PRETEND THIS BOOK
DOESN'T EXIST.
YOU HAVE TO SAY OKAY THIS IS
ONE PICTURE OF ATTICUS FINCH AND
GIVES US A COMPLICATED PICTURE
OF THE SOUTH AND RACE RELATIONS
IN THE U.S.
IT'S LESS IDEALISTIC AND LESS
FLATTERING BUT MAYBE IT'S MORE
INTERESTING IN THE LONG RUN.
>> THE EXACT THIS IS 50 YEARS
LATER FROM THE SAME AUTHOR, I
MEAN I DON'T KNOW IF TIMES IT'S
HAPPENED BEFORE.
>> I CAN'T THINK OF ANY
PRECEDENT FOR IT.
THERE HAVE BEEN OTHER BOOKS THAT
HAVE HAD SEQUELS, GONE WITH THE
WIND HAD SEQUELS BUT THEY WERE
WRITTEN BY DIFFERENT AUTHORS SO
THEY EXIST IN A PROVISIONAL WAY.
IT'S NOT THE SAME THING AT ALL.
YOU CAN'T DISCOUNT THIS BOOK'S
EXISTENCE NOW.
IT LIVES WITH TO KILL A
MOCKINGBIRD SIDE BY SIDE WITH
IT.
>> THIS IS BEING RELEASED AT THE
TIME WHEN A CONVERSATION ABOUT
RACE IN AMERICA HAS RESURFACED
IN SEVERAL WAYS IN THE PAST SIX
MONTHS.
>> IT'S FASCINATING.
IT REALLY SHOWS YOU THAT RACE IS
SUCH A CENTRAL ISSUE IN THE
UNITED STATES.
THE ISSUE OF THE CONFEDERATE
FLAG.
PEOPLE ARE GOING TO BE THINKING
OF THAT AS THEY READ THIS BOOK
AND IT RESURFACED AGAIN.
>> DID SHE TALK ABOUT WHY SHE
WAITED SO LONG.
>> WELL, IT WAS A DRAFT.
WE DON'T REALLY KNOW.
WE DON'T HAVE ANY ACCESS TO HER
OR HER THOUGHTS.
IT WAS HER, THE EXECUTOR OF THE
ESTATE, HER LAWYER IN ESSENCE.
SHE FOUND THIS MANUSCRIPT AND
PUT IT OUT TO THE WORLD.
WE DON'T REALLY KNOW THE HISTORY
OF IT OR WHAT SHE THINKS.
>> Sreenivasan: SAM SACKS WHO
REVIEWED GO SET
A WATCHMAN FOR THE FICTION
CHRONICLE OF THE WEEKEND
JOURNAL.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR JOINING
US.
>> THANK YOU.
>>THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
SATURDAY.
>> Sreenivasan: IN OTHER NEWS:
NEITHER THE PENTAGON NOR THE
C.I.A. ARE RESPONDING DIRECTLY
TO ALLEGATIONS THAT ITS
OFFICIALS CONSPIRED WITH THE
AMERICAN PSYCHOLOGICAL
ASSOCIATION TO ALLOW
INTERROGATIONS INVOLVING
TORTURE.
THE A.P.A. COMMISSIONED THE NEW,
542-PAGE REPORT WHICH FOUND THAT
SOME MEMBERS "COLLUDED WITH
IMPORTANT D.O.D. OFFICIALS TO
HAVE A.P.A. ISSUE LOOSE, HIGH-
LEVEL ETHICAL GUIDELINES THAT
DID NOT CONSTRAIN" ITS NOW-
CONTROVERSIAL INTERROGATION
TECHNIQUES.
THE A.P.A. IS CONSIDERING
BANNING ITS PSYCHOLOGISTS FROM
GOVERNMENT INTERROGATIONS.
THE C.I.A. SAYS IT HASN'T SEEN
THE REPORT, BUT THAT ITS MEDICAL
PERSONNEL "UPHOLD THE HIGHEST
STANDARDS."
IN CHINA, A POWERFUL STORM HAS
FORCED A MILLION PEOPLE TO
EVACUATE THE COASTAL AREAS SOUTH
OF SHANGHAI.
THE STORM MADE LANDFALL THIS
MORNING WITH 100 MPH WINDS,
FLOODING ROADS, AND TOPPLING
TREES.
IT ALSO SHUT DOWN HUNDREDS OF
TRAINS AND FLIGHTS.
CHINA'S NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE
SAYS THIS COULD BE THE STRONGEST
TYPHOON TO STRIKE CHINA SINCE
1949.
THERE'S A NEW DRUG TO TREAT
HEPATITIS C, AND IT IS EVEN MORE
EXPENSIVE THAN ITS PREDECESSOR.
THE EARLIER DRUG MANUFACTURED BY
GILEAD SCIENCES COST $1,000 PER
PILL.
THE COMPANY'S NEW PRODUCT,
CALLED HARVONI, COSTS $1,350
DOLLARS PER PILL.
THE NUMBER OF PRESCRIPTIONS
FILLED FOR HEPATITIS C DRUGS HAS
MORE THAN DOUBLED OVER THE PAST
YEAR.
IN THE UNITED STATES, HEPATITIS
C AFFECTS SOME THREE MILLION
PEOPLE AND CLAIMS MORE LIVES
THAN AIDS.
AND IN LONDON, SERENA WILLIAMS
WON HER 21st CAREER GRAND SLAM
TITLE AT WIMBLEDON TODAY.
THIS IS WILLIAMS' FOURTH GRAND
SLAM CHAMPIONSHIP IN A ROW AND
IT'S THE SECOND TIME IN HER
CAREER THAT SHE HAS HELD ALL
FOUR GRAND SLAM TITLES AT ONCE.
IF SHE WINS THE U.S. OPEN,
SHE'LL BE THE FIRST PLAYER TO
SWEEP THE FOUR MAJORS IN THE
SAME SEASON SINCE STEFFI GRAF
DID IT IN 1988.
>> Sreenivasan: ON PBS NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND SUNDAY, THE FIGHT TO
KEEP SOMALIA'S YOUTH FROM
FLEEING THE COUNTRY.
>> "DON'T LEAVE.
STAY HERE," HE TELLS THEM.
IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS, ALMOST
900 KIDS FROM THIS SCHOOL ALONE
HAVE FLED FOR EUROPE.
>> Sreenivasan: THAT'S TOMORROW
ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>> Sreenivasan: THE FINANCE
MINISTER AND IN
TALKS THIS EVENING BY DEMANDING
THAT GREECE COMMITTED MORE
SEVERE AUSTERITY MEASURES IF IT
WANTS TO STAY ON THE CURRENCY
AND RECEIVE A THIRD BAILOUT.
MEETINGS CONTINUE IN BRUSSELS
TOMORROW.
AND IF YOU WANT TO READ THE
FIRST CHAPTER OF HARPER LEE'S GO
SET A WATCHMAN YOU CAN GO TO OUR
SITE pbs.org/newshour.
THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN, THANKS FOR
WATCHING.